---
hidden: true
---

For how much software has evolved and matured I often find it strange how many tasks remain unaddressed by niche, purpose-built software. I’m always excited to see how novel ideas can come about from focusing in on a very narrow domain.

[Ink and Switch’s latest research prototype](https://www.inkandswitch.com/embark) focuses on one very specific task: making travel plans. It brings the features of multiple apps into a single workspace. 

> Although apps give us access to all kinds of information, they provide only limited mechanisms for bringing it together in useful ways. Whenever a complex task requires multiple apps, we are forced to juggle information across apps, resulting in tedious and error-prone coordination work.
> \
> <cite> [Embark: Dynamic documents for making plans](https://www.inkandswitch.com/embark/#:~:text=Although%20apps%20give%20us%20access%20to%20all%20kinds%20of%20information%2C%20they%20provide%20only%20limited%20mechanisms%20for%20bringing%20it%20together%20in%20useful%20ways.%20Whenever%20a%20complex%20task%20requires%20multiple%20apps%2C%20we%20are%20forced%20to%20juggle%20information%20across%20apps%2C%20resulting%20in%20tedious%20and%20error%2Dprone%20coordination%20work.)</cite>

Embark uses a humble text-based document as its interface, which it then enriches with additional data and views as needed. There is something so thrilling to me that, of all the options explored, plain text won the day.

As a designer I find it both deeply distressing and blissfully serene that improvements upon plain text as way of viewing, creating, and manipulating data are so rare. 

Ink and Switch identified 3 core problems with the typical model where tasks are completed across individual apps:

1. Context is not shared across apps
2. Views are siloed
3. Apps produce ephemeral output

Most of my excitement in AI stems from the potential for new computing and interface paradigms to flourish. This isn’t just being driven by AI—we also see it in the increasing adoption of federated protocols for social networks. 

This work, along with the recent AI-ification of interfaces, make it clear that the written word is hard to beat when it comes to human-computer (or even human-human) interactions. 
