---
title: The pleasure of observing
hidden: true
---

I've been thinking a lot lately about the work that I do (design systems) and why that type of work is so damn difficult.

To distract myself from that during the holiday break I decided to read a book focused on an unrelated topic. *Field Notes on Science and Nature* is a lovely book which features essays by prominent naturalists who work in the field, and offers a glimpse into their note-taking practices. 

Of course, influence and inspiration often comes from unexpected places. Despite my intention, I found myself nodding along to many passages and relating to them in terms of my own work.

> Such research consists of a repetitive recording of the same facts until one has a large enough sample to <mark>deduce patterns, derive conclusions, and even make predictions.</mark>
> 
> <cite>George B. Schaller, The Pleasure of Observing</cite>

I read this and it hit me in the face—this is what us system designers must do to operate at scale. 

Once a design system is established, adopted, and grown to cover a sufficiently large set of use cases, it enters a new phase of its lifecycle where the work for its maintainers can look and feel very different. Foundations have been established, core design decisions made, API patterns entrenched, etc.

An established and deployed system goes from being a thing your team *creates* to being a thing your team *operates*.

Operating a design system might seem less important than establishing the system, but I think the opposite is true. Systems can only serve constantly changing products/businesses by constantly changing themselves. A system does not exist at one point in time, and it's only as good as its latest iteration. 

Iterating on a widely-used system can be risky, and the best defense is to arm yourself and your team with knowledge. Knowledge about the system and its users allows you to do just what the quote above says: deduce patterns, derive conclusions, and even make predictions.

How do we gather knowledge? George B. Schaller has us covered there as well: repetitive recording of the same facts.




Get knowledge out into the open. It’s really sad how much collective knowledge in Figma files and Slack messages is lost over time.


<!--

- **Repetitive recording**\
	Like a scientist keeping notes in the field, it's imperative to the success of a design system to keep a detailed record.
- **Large enough sample**\
	The best way to increase adoption of a design system is to increase the size of the total addressable market. Adoption increases our sample size and the amount of information we're able to record.
- **Deduce patterns**
- **Derive conclusions**
- **Make predictions**

Once again: "a repetitive recording of the same facts until one has a large enough sample to deduce patterns, derive conclusions, and even make predictions."

In this phase the stewards of the system may need to shift from work that's rooted in art to something more akin to science. 

TKTK If this sort of work doesn't seem interesting to you, then you might not enjoy working on design systems.

-->