---
title: Apps and the Age of AI
hidden: true
---

For how much software has evolved and matured I find it strange how many tasks remain unaddressed by niche, purpose-built software. I’m always excited to see how novel ideas can come about from focusing in on a narrow domain.

[Ink and Switch’s latest research prototype Embark](https://www.inkandswitch.com/embark) focuses on one specific task: making travel plans. 

Embark uses a humble text-based document as its interface, which it then enriches with additional data and views as needed. There is something thrilling to me in the notion that, of all the options explored, plain text won (and often wins) the day.

As a designer I find it both deeply distressing and blissfully serene that improvements upon plain text as way of viewing, creating, and manipulating data are so rare. 

Perhaps more importantly than the medium, Embark brings the features of multiple apps into a single workspace:

> Although apps give us access to all kinds of information, they provide only limited mechanisms for bringing it together in useful ways. Whenever a complex task requires multiple apps, we are forced to juggle information across apps, resulting in tedious and error-prone coordination work.
> \
> <cite> [Embark: Dynamic documents for making plans](https://www.inkandswitch.com/embark/#:~:text=Although%20apps%20give%20us%20access%20to%20all%20kinds%20of%20information%2C%20they%20provide%20only%20limited%20mechanisms%20for%20bringing%20it%20together%20in%20useful%20ways.%20Whenever%20a%20complex%20task%20requires%20multiple%20apps%2C%20we%20are%20forced%20to%20juggle%20information%20across%20apps%2C%20resulting%20in%20tedious%20and%20error%2Dprone%20coordination%20work.)</cite>

Ink and Switch's research identified 3 core problems with the typical model where tasks are completed using a series of individual apps:

1. Context is not shared across apps
2. Views are siloed
3. Apps produce ephemeral output

One of the most exciting aspects of AI for me is [its potential to address these challenges](https://chasem.co/2023/03/eyes-and-ears). AI actors operating on our behalf, paired with the right platform primitives and protocols, have the potential to form a new model of computing which reduced the coordination cost of managing many apps and interfaces.

I feel optimistic about a future with technology shaped by catalysts like LLMs, federated social protocols, and now Embark. Each offer new avenues for addressing the challenges with a computing model centered around siloed apps. 

If the past decade of human computer interaction has been centered around apps, perhaps the next decade will knock those walls down and put users back in control of their data and the ways it is manipulated. 
