---
title: Anchored positioning is neat and useful
hidden: true
---

CSS has many ways to positioning elements on the page. Need to create columns of text, or a grid with rows and columns, or even float some text around an image? No problem. Heck, [we're even getting native masonry layouts soon](TODO).

But all of the positioning techniques we have today are in relation to the parent or ancestor of the element being positioning (and its siblings). What about positioning an element relative to another arbitrary element on the page? Not so simple. 

Luckily, we're getting a solution for this too via [the working draft for an anchored positioning spec](TODO).

For years we've relied on complex JavaScript frameworks for this sort of thing—imagine popover menus and tooltips in a web app for an idea of what anchored positioning gives us. Now, a glimpse of a future where CSS is all we need for this sort of thing. 

If you want to try anchored positioning today you'll need to enable a flag in the latest version of Chrome, but it will come to all browsers in a stable form soon enough. 

Anchored positioning allows us to `position: absolute;` an element, but instead of moving things around in relation to the  nearest relative-positioned ancestor, it's based on whatever object on the page we want.

So how does it work? First, you declare an anchor. You can do this in CSS via the `anchor-name` property:

```css
.anchor {
  anchor-name: --tooltip;
}
```

In the future, you'll be able to declare anchors in HTML as well via the `anchor` attribute on an element. 

CSS gives us an `anchor()` function to position an element relative to any one of our named anchors. This function takes three arguments:

1. The anchor name. This is the thing you assigned to the `anchor-name` prop, or the value of the `anchor` attribute assigned to an HTML element. 
2. The side. 
3. The fallback.

So to position a tooltip above our anchor we defined previously, we might do something like this:

```css
.tooltip {
  position: absolute;
  bottom: anchor(--tooltip top);
}
```

Because the `anchor` function accepts an anchor name, you can position things based on as many anchors as you want! 

You can even use multiple anchors within a single calculation. If that warps your brain as much as it did mine, don't fear—I have an example. 

Sidenotes/marginalia have always been a tricky thing to implement on the web. Having a piece of text float in the gutter, relative to its anchor, and not overlapping with other sidenotes is a lot of complexity to manage. 

The best solution to this I've ever seen comes courtesy of Eric Meyer. [He shares a technique for implementing sidenotes using anchored positioning](https://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2023/09/12/nuclear-anchored-sidenotes) in a way that meets all of the criteria I listed above. 

The extra clever bit is how Eric ensures that nearby sidenotes don't overlap one another:

```css
top: max(
  anchor(top), 
  calc(anchor(--sidenote bottom) + 0.67em)
);
```

This technique combines three CSS functions! `max`, `anchor`, and `cal` combine forces to anchor the sidenote to *either* the top of the anchor, or the bottom of the previous sidenote (plus a gap), whichever is greater. 

Eric reminds us that all of this is a draft specification, and it could change before it becomes generally available. I pass along his word of caution. 

But wow! What a powerful set of behaviors communicated in such a succinct bit of code. CSS amazes, even after all this time.