---
title: The story of Sail, Stripe’s design system
hidden: true
---

Design systems are special, fickle things. They exist to help people, to celebrate creativity, to move slowly and fix things. They are often in direct opposition to the practices of the organizations in which they exist.

The teams that build design systems are special too. They're made up of specialist craftspeople who care deeply about creating tools for other toolmakers. They're rebels fighting against the capitalistic urge to prioritize profit over people.

---

It's been 3 years now since I joined the Design Systems team at Stripe, and I couldn't be more proud of what my team has achieved during that time. Much of our work isn't public though, so I thought now might be a good time to pause, reflect, and share some details about our work.

My team and I work on Sail, the design system and UI platform that powers a staggering number of products at Stripe. To quickly put it into perspective, the internal package for Sail is included in ~100 `package.json` files.

Those installations represent surfaces that are both internal to the company and external-facing (for Stripe's end users). The external facing surfaces include first party UIs hosted by Stripe _and_ those embedded within our customer's applications. It also includes third party UIs that are hosted themselves within Stripe's applications. Some of those UIs are consistent in appearance, and some represent products with completely unique brands or UIs that can be themed and customized by Stripe's end users.

The complexity and diversity of use cases that Sail needs to support is overwhelming to say the least.

My time at Stripe so far has largely been spent architecting, designing, and building Sail as both a design system and a set of frameworks that enable a small (10–15 people) but mighty team to support the breadth of Stripe's use cases. I think we've landed on a system that is extremely powerful, resilient, and unique.

There are too many details to be exhaustive, so here I'll try to focus on some of the most novel and critical aspects of what has made Sail successful.

## Core abstractions

Sail is made up of a few key layers:

- An abstraction for building composable components, which we call "views"
- A CSS framework for styling React components
- A design token framework for styling/customizing UIs
- A set of pre-built and commonly used components

Each of these layers comes together to enable developers to build interoperable user interfaces. If used exclusively, components built with Sail can be rendered in any application that uses Sail, and will take on the appearance of that application

Let's take a look at the basic of each of those layers.

### Views

The view is the humble backbone of the entire system, and represents the lowest level abstraction for rendering a UI.

```jsx
import { view } from '@sail/ui'

return () => <view.h1>Hello world!</view.h1>
```

```jsx
import { view } from '@sail/ui'

const MyComponent = createView('div')

return () => <MyComponent>Hello world!</MyComponent>
```

When defining a view, you can specify some options:

```jsx
import { view } from '@sail/ui'

const MyComponent = createView('div', {
  css: {},
  variants: {},
  subviews: {},
})
```

### CSS

Once you've rendered an element, the next thing you probably want to do is add some styles. All views accept a `css` prop that lets you do just that:

{% raw %}

```jsx
<view.div css={{ padding: 'medium' }}>Hello world!</view.div>
```

{% endraw %}

Notice that we're using `medium`, a non-standard value, with the padding property there. More on that and design tokens in general in a bit.

TODO intents?

Under the hood, Sail takes this object and generates a set of atomic classnames that get assigned to the view. We go to great lengths to ensure that the precedence of styles is always intuitive when working in a component model. Styles applied by the user always win over styles applied within a component's implementation, etc.

### Design tokens

### Components

## Building components

```js
const MyComponent = createView()
```

## Building UIs
